Add documentation about the input platform (#4077)
canonical/mir: doc/sphinx/reference/input_platform.md

# Input Platform APIs

## Introduction

The Mir input platform is provided by a loadable module implementing the
following entrypoints using C linkage (i.e. no symbol name mangling):

```c++
mir::ModuleProperties const* describe_input_module();
```

Returns a structure describing the module.

```c++
void add_input_platform_options(boost::program_options::options_description& config);
```

Add command line options specific to this platform. This seems like it
should be called from

> `src/platform/options/default_configuration.cpp`, but isn't.

Reviewer: "This seems like it should be called from `src/platform/options/default_configuration.cpp`, but isn't."

It may be just me but I don't understand what information are we conveying to the users with this observation. Are we asking them to ignore the discrepancy or stating that it is expected behaviour?

```c++
mir::input::PlatformPriority probe_input_platform(
    mir::options::Option const& options,
    mir::ConsoleServices& console);
```

> Makes a decision on whether this input platform module should be
> used. The return value can range from saying the module is unsupported
> all the way to being the best choice for the system.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this "makes a decision" - that is ultimately done by the caller

```suggestion
Report how suitable this input platform module for to the runtime environment.
The return value can range from saying the module is unsupported
all the way to being the best choice for the system.
```

monitoring for available input devices: both pre-existing and newly
hotplugged.

The `start`, `stop`, `pause_for_config`, and `continue_after_config`
methods allow the server to control when the input platform should
monitor for devices.

When new devices are plugged into the system, they are registered with
the {class}`mir::input::InputDeviceRegistry` via it's `add_device`
method. When they are unplugged, it should call the `remove_device`
method.

The platform has a `dispatchable` method that allows integration into
the server's IO event loop.

## The mir::input::InputDevice type

Input devices added to the registry are represented by
{class}`mir::input::InputDevice` subclasses. The subclass must implement the
following methods:

* `start` and `stop` to start/stop consuming events from the device.
* `get_device_info` to retrieve an {class}`mir::input::InputDeviceInfo` struct describing the device.
* `get_pointer_settings`, `get_touchpad_settings`, `get_touchscreen_settings`, and `apply_settings` to manage settings of the device.

If reading events from the input device requires the use of the server
event loop, this should be achieved through the platform's

> `dispatchable` method.

Reviewer 3: Why would we want this specifically? So that there is a "polling" type of behavior?

Author: I had assumed that some of the other code might rely on certain callbacks happening in the main event loop thread, but Chris says this is not the case.

I had also thought this was something that would be needed to hook up Rust async code, but on further investigation that's probably not the case: we could definitely write async code that could hook to the Mir event loop with this interface, but code using e.g. tokio is always going to run through the tokio runtime's event loop.

I'll reword this to indicate that it is available if needed.

### Processing events

When the server calls the `start` method on an {class}`InputDevice
<mir::input::InputDevice>`, it will pass an {class}`InputSink
<mir::input::InputSink>` object and an {class}`EventBuilder
<mir::input::EventBuilder>` object.

Each time the device generates an event, the {class}`InputDevice
<mir::input::InputDevice>` is responsible for calling the sink's
`handle_event` method. This method takes a {struct}`MirEvent` pointer
as an argument. Rather than constructing the event objects itself, the
provided `EventBuilder` class should be used instead.

The `EventBuilder` class includes methods for constructing various
types of input events (keyboard events, mouse pointer events,
touchscreen events, etc). This gives the consumer a way to customise
how the events are represented.

In addition to sending events to the `InputSink`, the device is also
expected to send a more raw version of the event data to the
platform's {class}`InputReport <mir::input::InputReport>` object to

> enable tracing.

Reviewer 3: Newline at end please :)
